[Applause]
[Music]
what is up everybody welcome to the
latest edition of after impact I am your
host Tom bill you and I am here with
agent Smith mr. bill you what's that man
doing I'm doing well thank you how about
you
pretty good your boy Preston smiles is
up too bad he's a fellow surfer that's
right yeah I didn't know that until he
talked about it on the on the episode
yeah it's cool and he has a whole surf
school which I didn't know about either
really yeah like oh that's right yeah
I've been cut out of the episode yeah I
didn't mention it indeed yeah I'll have
to go check out that surf school
sometime yes yes we are here on after
impact welcome everybody this is a show
where we unpack the impact yeah Preston
smiles now this is a Tuesday this is not
a regular after impact for us but due to
some shoots coming up we had to shift
the schedule around so hopefully you've
seen the episode if you're really on it
and you're on that commute on the
podcast you may have listened to it
that's the YouTube episode just went
live so please join us or watch this
later and enjoy it after you've seen the
episode or if you haven't seen it yet
this is a really good one guys I really
like his energy super positive if you're
looking for something to really lift you
up give you a new perspective this is a
great episode for that Preston is
awesome at that and yeah if you haven't
listened to it yet or heard it check it
out on the podcast we're on all kinds of
platforms we're on all the plan we're on
iTunes
we're on stitcher we're on overcast
we're trying to get on Spotify optimum
word here please it's like unrequited
love like we really want to be on
Spotify but we haven't gotten it yet we
have not so if you want us to be on
Spotify if you listen to all your
usually go on Spotify and you want to
also listen to impact Theory why don't
you tweet tweet Spotify yeah I'm up let
me know what's up yeah and then also
we're trying to crush right now to get
across the hundred K mark on YouTube so
share this content if it's bringing
value that would be amazing we're trying
to help our boy doctor finesse out
getting those numbers up is really gonna
help him book some guests we're starting
to get outreach I don't want to derail
this episode but people are starting to
reach into us now like right into ask to
be on the show some pretty amazing
people i until we have the date for the
person that reached out to us yesterday
i won't say who it is but i was freaking
out yes good momentum right now so thank
you for for all of your support let's
dive into this episode welcome facebook
live welcome youtube live we're talking
about preston smiles he is a author he's
a motivational speaker a life coach
founder of the company which I'm afraid
I don't know the name of right now
bridge method yo the bridge method
amazing guy has a crazy story about his
life and he just has a really refreshing
perspective so highly encourage you to
watch the episode let's kick it off
talking about play yeah this really
resonated with me because I'm a big
believer in the importance of play
interesting yeah I never would have said
that about you
I think because I have a different way
when I'm working yeah but in my personal
life I really think play is critical
yeah you got to watch that IG feed with
you you're you're like a sleeper
comedian and I feed I like that fun
sometimes yeah so play for me is really
important I want to talk to you about
how you see play in your life especially
as someone who is constantly grinding
constantly on out working everyone
around them or pursuing that what role
does play have in your life man the
honest answer is while my life is
certainly not devoid of play not by any
source of the imagination and one of the
fun ways that I found to spend time with
my wife is to play video games which is
very very much play but I'm not a guy
that thinks about play yeah what I think
a lot about is enjoying what I do so
I'll tell you one of the things I I
don't have an easy time putting words
around this but being an entrepreneur is
puzzle solving so you're constantly
presented with problems and you have to
find a solution for them and I really
enjoy that process so we just had a call
this morning which maybe I was solving a
problem that did
even exist but even in that moment like
when I thought they were saying hey this
this can't be done my mind immediately
goes to actually I know there's a way
and let's find that way and so that for
me if you can have that mentality of how
do we solve this problem how do we
overcome this hurdle and you can really
truly enjoy that process so that you get
a little bit giddy when you've got a big
problem and you're thinking of cool ways
to solve it or the team is coming
together and you're brainstorming ideas
like if that's fun for you then you're
in a really really good position and
that is very fun for me so I don't think
a lot about like oh hey I want to go
surf or I want to play volleyball or
you know something like that that
doesn't really enter into my life but I
so enjoy what I do that I I would be
willing to bet on a neurochemical level
if you were to scan my brain while I'm
solving a problem and you were to scan
somebody else's brain say pressing
smiles while he's surfing or doing
something that's meditative and
enjoyable at the same time it would look
very very similar so I don't have a
traditional play style but I think at
the brainwave level it's gonna be very
close that's super interesting so it
sounds like you've been able to
incorporate play into your day-to-day in
just the way that you think about things
and actually my belief in why play is so
important is that it allows you to
practice de-escalating and lowering the
stakes on things when then everything
becomes more game-like right and if it's
game-like then you can actually perform
because then you can look at it as a
challenge rather than a test of your
confidence or get into that fixed
mindset trap so that's why I try to find
times and Nicole and I used to do this
and we haven't done it in a while but we
had scheduled a night during the week
we're come home we order food and you
know so we don't have doing dishes or
cooking or anything and we set up like
stations around the house where there's
like origami there yeah drawing there's
writing there's like the pull the guitar
out and we just spend time just getting
in gross than that Wow
and I find that it's a really good way
to kind of reset deescalate and then
apply those like puzzle-solving
you know problem-solving skills to
everything in life after that so that is
really interesting really really
interesting in a similar tactic that I
use is to remind myself that there is no
performance everything is discipline
practice so I'm trying to go into like
the craziest most over-the-top stressful
situation and remind myself this is just
a chance to like see where my skill set
is how far I've I've taken it but
there's no like oh my god the world is
gonna crumble if we don't crush it at
this moment that everything is just at a
chance to test to try to practice that's
awesome
do you think play has a definition I
think that everyone would define it like
when I think about it yeah I have a
definition for what play is I think that
Preston would definitely have a
definition for what play is but I don't
think that there's any objectively right
or wrong answer I'll come back to
neurochemical state right so play is
something that like you're saying you're
finding a way to enjoy it rather than to
be focused on or even experiencing the
stakes right when something's high
stakes and your performance matters it
feels very different and it's a very
different experience yeah then when
you're just messing around with friends
and and that feeling is coming from the
neuro chemistry of whatever you're doing
which is born not of the thing itself
but born rather of your perspective so
that's why I think that at the end of
the day like if people are groping at
trying to explain it with a really
groping for is the the words to put
around that feeling versus the actual
activity that's awesome and then the
last thing we'll say on this is I found
it really interesting that he actually
schedules time yeah into a schedule I
know that kind of hitting you in the
episode too and just one of your
thoughts on that and you know playing
video games is something that's
scheduled into your weekends usually
right yeah yeah well so scheduling
something is very different then it's it
normally happens right so when he said
he scheduled it I thought whoa like that
you're really prioritizing it like I
schedule important things time okay it
is the thing everybody knows not to mess
with that
I'm Amanda never schedules me anything
from eight to ten like that's just my
important things no matter what I'm
gonna be doing the that during that time
so when he said that he's scheduled it I
thought you want to talk about something
I would never put on my schedule is play
like work harder extra work that I would
put on my schedule which is the thing
about identity which is why I tell
people it is so important that you're
doing something you love you care about
makes you feel more alive right because
then it's like everything you're doing
is getting the benefit of play so that
that was what struck me is he actually
puts it down in his calendar he
prioritizes that becomes a real thing
for him so it you see people's value
system and how they spend their time
yeah that's very very intriguing to me
that's cool just a shout out to Lance
Carter on Facebook he had a similar
question around scheduling play versus
pond tonight so I think you covered it
thank you
let's let's kick it over to another
thing that I found really fascinating
and you know it was interesting about
Preston you can uses a lot of metaphors
in the way that he explains things he's
super visual too so just the way that he
would describe things and the one visual
or the one image that he used that I
liked was you know he said the problem
is that we're always trying to land and
it's you know as soon as I get that car
or that house or that girl or that guy
then I've got it and then I'm done yeah
and he really sort of debunks that myth
of that's not what's going to bring you
happiness or fulfillment it's the
process so I wanted to get your thoughts
on that yeah and his whole analogy of
it's the castle right and he said you
know who's talking about what we've
built here and he said I bet four years
ago this was like a dream and it was
your castle and now it's your netflix
and chill' and now you're like yeah
what's that next thing what's that next
thing and the thing is for me I love
that so much like we are going through
like do you feel it I really hope you
have the context to understand what
we're going through right now at impact
Theory we're going through that that's
zero to one moment where people are now
reaching out
we have been the underdog for so long
and getting gas was like [__] pulling
teeth getting people to take us
seriously trying to get like momentum
going on the speaking side of things
like it was just it's been so much
energy and now like it's starting to
come off right now it's like people are
reaching out because they've seen the
content people are reaching out because
they want to be on the show people are
reaching out because they believe in
what we're doing with the studio and all
of that was we had to create it from
absolutely nothing and that like I love
that so much of moving the goalposts
like moving the goalposts for me and I
know that it stresses people out in my
life because when you're not the one
moving it but the goalposts have been
moved off you like it's a very different
experience yeah but the more the core
team here is together the more I think
everyone will begin to internalize that
like work we all benefit from that and
this isn't a beat each other up for not
having done it this is like this is how
you begin to matter on a global scale
right that no matter how much you've
achieved like you can always push it a
little bit farther a little bit farther
a little bit farther and that's why like
my core obsession is with the
manifestation of potential like actually
turning it into the ability to close
your eyes imagine something open them
and make it come true like that is so
cool and I love that so much and that
process to make sure that you never have
arrived is all about like okay now that
you've got to the castle what's the next
castle next castle now some people look
at that and they say you're putting
yourself on a treadmill whatever and
that it's true if you're trying to land
as press and says if you're trying to
make it about if you think having the
thing is what's gonna give me the
sensation that I'm looking for and
that's why if people really listen to
what I say and they really watch what I
do what I love is the process what I
love is the act of becoming it is always
a becoming it's never a I am and that's
why before I get there I'm always
pushing the goalposts back now here in
the company I think it's important
because you're in a group and you're not
by yourself it's important to celebrate
things we're actually building out for
anybody watching entrepreneurs out there
here's something that you should really
think
about build out a calendar of what you
as an entity celebrate and I think
that's important so what are our
celebrations is it milestones right so
we've done some of that with our 24 hour
impact athan we really wanted to
celebrate and think the community may
the fourth right the which is basically
our celebration around mythology and its
power sure so we do like a big fun thing
where you know all around Star Wars but
that's a cool thing for us to reinforce
like what our ideology is so if you're
enjoying that process if you are taking
the time to celebrate but if at the same
time like you're willing to like push it
and think bigger and dream bigger and
can love the process it's amazing and
that's such an important distinction I
think is that you have to be striving
but then you can't if you're happy when
you land it's only gonna be fleeting and
you can't rely on that and that's why I
really liked his his whole notion of
going to the castle through the woods
and you got to take the hits and then as
soon as you're in the castle you look
for the next castle yeah right it's true
one of the one of the things that struck
me in the very beginning of the episode
Preston said a lot of what he does with
his work when he's doing sort of
coaching people when I want or mentoring
is helping them change the stories they
tell themselves yeah and I know you like
that and I almost had a thought of like
would you agree that that's that's the
work that you do as well 100% and
hearing him talk about the difference
between facts and stories which is how I
opened the episode right yeah it was
like I wanted to get right to it
because that to me is it is why impact
Theory is going to work because there
are facts and then there are the stories
that you tell yourself and Neri the
twain shall meet
right like they don't they don't
necessarily have anything to do with
each other and he also talks in fact I
think we end the episode talking about
everything is neutral yeah right so we
all admit this was accidental but we end
up booking the
book ending the episode with talking
about the difference between a fact I am
single and a story I'm single because
I'm not good-looking enough or I'm not
witty enough or the whole world's full
of players which was the example that he
gave so that difference and then book
ending it at the end with what did we
book everything everything is neutral
thing I was like Jesus talk about that
yeah so that that concept that it is the
story that you apply to the event that
gives it its meaning and I'm hearing
more and more people talk about this
concept of world meaning making machines
and that is that is why I'm so obsessed
with story fiction narrative because
you're going to extract from the events
the perspective based on the story that
you're telling yourself based on what
you paint that essentially neutral event
and I'm glad he used cancer and I wish
the example I had used was you're gonna
die right like you like if you found out
you were gonna die today
like could that ever possibly be seen as
neutral and when you're able to take it
to that extreme getting mauled by a
grizzly bear and surviving but being
horrifically scarred and deformed right
like can you really say that's neutral
and I would say that you can say it on
paper but experientially very much not
and so it is the very much not that
becomes the the difference where one
person it will ruin their life and the
other person will become the purpose and
meaning of their life and the difference
experientially between those two people
who go through something bad and it
destroys them and they you know whatever
I mean many many people go through such
a hardship they can't get past it their
frame of reference for it is so negative
that they commit suicide right and then
did you watch I'm not your guru the Tony
Robbins documentary okay so that amazing
moment where that woman who was
unbelievably abused in ways I was just
like I was paralyzed by I can't believe
that's like real and in I just got the
chills in him talking to her she
realizes wait a second I can totally
read the event is the event nothing has
changed but you see her in real-time
reframe it to but now I can help other
people and I'm not saying that I would
have sought out what happened to me but
what happened
and and now with a simple reframe I can
become incredibly giving and helpful to
other people and you see her like find
this sense of lightness about it in that
that you see this weight sort of lifted
off her and I'm not saying that she
isn't gonna have more work to do to
remind herself to keep coming back to
that perspective back to that
perspective but if she can keep coming
back to that perspective suddenly
nothing has changed about the event
whatsoever but the story that she's
telling herself this perspective the the
coloring the emotional coloring that she
places on it changes radically and
there's actually a part of the brain is
called the deep limbic system and it's
job is to take the world which is
neutral and paint it with this is good
bad indifferent whatever so once I
understood that literally there's a part
of the brain that that's its role is to
make sure that nothing is neutral and so
there's been Studies on people that get
the portion of the brain that deals with
coloring things emotionally it gets
damaged and then they can't make a
decision it is it is so surreal I think
that vs Ramachandra uncovers this I
can't remember if it was in phantoms in
the brain or not well round it to that
these were in several books but he talks
about how people can articulate like
whether they want salmon or lamb chops
right like they can tell you this yeah
like you know I probably should have the
salmon it's a cold water or fish it's
got really healthy fats whereas you know
I'm trying to reduce my red meat intake
and but then when you say okay but
seriously which one do you want they
can't ever [__] tell you like they
are permanently frozen in I get why like
I might want one or the other
intellectually but I literally can't
decide because you need that emotion is
so crazy so understanding that and
knowing okay well then I can change what
I choose to what emotion I choose to
paint this with or I can choose to tell
myself a different story which will
inevitably impact the emotion that I
feel that's when people really begin to
take control of their life because you
have to like nothing is either good
nothing is either good or bad but
thinking makes it so right the the quote
from Shakespeare
and that is one of those things that
like put at the center of your life
because that is to really understand the
brain not the mind the brain the brain
is doing things the mind can take
control of it and really decide to do a
different thing with that mechanism that
this is one of those topics I just want
to keep going I think people get it but
that is so important one quick follow of
what what's the role that purpose has in
this transformation as it relates to
what we were just talking to have a very
negative experience or what would
interesting interesting so one if you
have a purpose let's call that your
North Star
it becomes the thing that guides your
direction it is the filter by which you
decide how to feel what to do how to
respond so with that like if I were to
say that my purpose is to pull people
out of the matrix then it's like I know
how to determine how to spend my time
but more importantly I know what I need
to do to my mind in order to make sure
that I'm able to execute against that
goal so if it were like hey my goal is
to go out and help people does it make
sense then to be paralyzed by fear no it
doesn't because I can't help people if I
do that so even though I may feel that
even though that fear may seem
objectively real it may seem like
something objectively to actually be
afraid of if that's what I need to move
forward then that's what I need to do so
I think a purpose as a goal right so not
a path like a goal a mission in life
something that you really want to make
come true and that's me at the end of
the day is really guiding everything in
fact does everything work backwards from
that yes yes even your identity should
be created in order to optimize you to
be the person to achieve that goal
that's why people have to be a very
specific about what their goal is and be
very careful about what they make their
goal speaking of identity can you talk a
little bit about going back to you know
everything in life is helping people
change the stories they tell them about
themselves
can you talk about how people become
aware of the stories they're telling
themselves I think that is a skill in
and of itself yeah so self-awareness is
I believe a learnable skill that starts
with a sense of dis so you feel
something in your gut usually and it's
your job to go oh I feel something right
and it only needs start with that
I feel something what is it that I feel
put a name to it anger frustration
jealousy sadness elation joy fulfillment
right whatever that thing is then you
want to ask what has made me feel this
way and when you can begin to accurately
identify that and I'll say I've spent
almost - in fact maybe more than two
decades really thinking about this and
even now sometimes I'm like Jesus I have
no idea why I feel weird right now and
it can take a work-in-progress 100% I
think that you get better at identifying
stuff and so it's only the more and more
subtle things that will be elusive to
you but that process of really
identifying articulating putting words
to what the feeling is and why you have
it is how you will cultivate the
self-awareness
I don't god do I think that there's
anything about the human condition that
can't be improved upon no there are
probably some people that are just more
self-aware than others so they get early
wins and so somebody else is gonna have
to work harder but I think that it is
possible great a couple quick shout out
so we have Raphael Lobato Lobato from
Brazil nice got Marc hit tree in Fort
Worth Texas and Eli officer from
Portland Oregon nice what's up guys
we're on Facebook live we're on YouTube
live this is just a reminder this is
after impact the show where we unpack
the episode of Preston smiles this week
early after impact so we're launching
the episode and doing an after impact
it's kind of like initially we were
thinking about the talking dead or you
were thinking about the talking dead
right yes
so this is almost that like it's the
episode goes
and then we do it right now yes yeah
that's actually a good point and by the
way we're building out a new set here at
impact house and that new set is all
focused around launching shows that are
literally media related so we'll be
doing things that are even closer to the
talking dead than this but yeah that
that was always the vision was to go
deeper to be able to give sort of a
director's commentary if you will on the
episode what I was thinking as this is
all happening because I'm really trying
to create space for them to shine and
have their moment and explain their
stuff rather than reacting in real time
without save that for something where
the community can join us and throwing
their thoughts and questions as well
definitely it's great so speaking of
that your reactions you really hit hard
by his comment where he said he slows
down to the speed of wisdom yeah so tell
me what was going through your mind at
that time that was just really
interesting and I choose to interpret it
as whatever you need to do to really
hear that wisdom to be able to live that
out so that you're actively doing
something about it and you'll see people
all the time like I'm too busy for and
one of the things that people are often
too busy for is like meditating and this
is one of those things I'm just telling
you right now with somebody who avoided
it for a very very very long time
just from a neurochemical standpoint if
you're not meditating you're [__] up
plain and simple like you're suboptimal
I promise so you know doing like what's
the quote it's something like if you
don't have ten minutes to meditate then
your priorities are wrong is that's I'm
so muffing this up but it's something
like that it's like if you think you
were so busy that you don't have ten
minutes to optimize your mind like
you're wasting so much time being
unoptimized that like you need it more
than most people so yeah just hearing
him say that I'd never heard that before
and I thought yeah if you need to and
I'm a guy who prized of speed but if you
need to slow down to really get in tune
with what makes sense like that there's
just all the logic in the world to that
for you that's a meditation right
meditation is one of the things and I
guess is depending on how broadly you're
gonna let me define meditation like so I
used to skip meditation a lot so if I
missed if my morning routine were out of
whack meditation would be one of the
first things that I would skip but I
have really found that the meditating in
and of itself gives me the silence to
hear my intuition and so it has become
more and more precious to me to make
sure that I take that time to create
that quiet space to hear my intuition
which is how like 9:00 no joke nine out
of the ten times that I present
something new to the group a this is
what I think we should be doing it was a
whisper from my intuition during
meditation and the whole like the last
couple weeks I've really been thinking
really what I'm doing is when I say
meditation I'm just saying priming
myself for think it Asian and I'm
getting myself in that calm quiet
creative state where I can hear those
whispers and I'm just in a great place
to pursue them and part of the reason
that I would skip meditation is because
when meditation is only meant to lower
your background radiation which is
stress anxiety what happens in moments
where you don't have any and that's how
people end up getting out of the cycle
of meditation is things are just going
well they don't have a high degree of
Backer especially if you're a practice
meditator you're so like you've gotten
so good at lowering the background
radiation at least once a day like it's
a zero and so you'll find yourself
hitting these rhythms we're not really
stressed or anxious about anything I
mean maybe a cute stuff but like as a
general thing I'm not really feeling
elevated anxiety or stress so I don't
feel like I need to meditate but then
once I thought about like how
advantageous it's been to like figure
and so I'll put in context for other
people if you're asking like how do I
find my passion which is what they'll
actually asked and the answers you need
to develop your passion you need the
development process starts with think
attaining it starts with creating that
calm creative state where you can hear
the little whispers which will call
those of those moments of interest the
things that like hey
this is actually something that I care
about you've created the space to hear
that and then you let your mind wander
on that thought to see like how do I
make this something more how do I fan
the flames how do I engage with it how
does this you know is this gonna become
a fascination through engagement or not
and it's in those moments that you
really start to think like hmm there's
something here for me and that that
process for really making your life what
you want it to be really being engaged
in absolutely loving your life I really
think that's it's the most foundational
thing I can think up to create that
space it's so true I was just saying
before this that I've been doing a lot
more meditation lately and it's one of
those things where I look back and go I
I feel like an idiot for not doing this
before you and me both yeah and the more
that I do it the more that I want to do
it 100 the more benefit I get from it
and little things come out that I didn't
see before and it's it's awesome all
right we got some questions from
Facebook actually you know YouTube this
is from that blank guy on YouTube he's
in the comments often that blank guy
that blank guy wow this is the first
time that name is registering I think
I've seen it before so hey Tom what are
your thoughts on taking the reframing of
neutrality in terms of frenemies if
everything is the story you tell
yourself about it about an event would
that mean frenemies then become null
I'll say no because here's the thing
about a frenemy it is someone who the
part that makes them so you've got the
part that makes them a friend you've got
the part that makes them the enemy and
often times that behavior is
counterproductive to what you're trying
to create it's undermining it's taking
swipes at you you know whatever the
thing is that is eroding that
relationship being a positive thing you
could however reframe having a frenemy
so don't be blind to the effects of a
frenemy but you could reframe like hey
you know what if you're stuck in a
situation you can't get away from them
you can either reframe and say what do I
do I'm gonna take total ownership for
this I am the reason that there is an
enemy component of this how do i reframe
the relationship and figure out
to work with them the other is to
reframe it and say you know what having
this friction is actually beneficial to
me and here are the ways that it's
helping me and focus on that right these
are the times where I would say that's
really only beneficial if you can't get
away from it because I think there is a
high degree just the way the humans are
there's a high degree of toxicity to
that where you can rise above it but
it's gonna constantly like chip away at
you so I think that there are realities
to be faced about and I'm I am very
happy to admit that this is all within
the framework of a larger story about
like living up to your potential
about playing on a world stage about
becoming the greatest of all time but
it's all fitting within my story so I
get that but all of my advice is gonna
come from that perspective because I
think again on paper all things are
neutral but given a human brain I think
it is absolutely zero percent of the
time that something is truly perceived
as neutral in a way that's useful it's
just good to remind yourself that I have
a portion of my brain that's painting
this so how do I choose to utilize that
thing I don't think that human beings
like maybe a Buddhist monk will tell you
otherwise but I think I've talked before
on the I've talked before in the past I
don't think I know I have about I fully
reject that notion of not wanting
because wanting is the root of all
suffering which by the way it is but I
fully embrace the utility of that and
with the narrative that I have that
makes a lot of sense and I'm not trying
to step out of the stream of life I'm
trying to be the fastest swimmer in it
nice there's someone in the comments
man you Pathak says how would you look
at preston smiles along with Tim Grover
they're seeing some parallels there and
some things that were similar
interesting yeah like this is one of
those things where I'd need somebody to
so how about this the story that I have
around Tim Grover and Preston smiles are
very very different
so in fact I'll say that Preston is the
bright the optimistic the you know you
can do anything and Tim Grover
personifies the darkness
like grind get it done whatever it takes
willingness to suffer like the the
literal sickness of obsession but that's
just my choice that's how I've chosen to
look at them and and maybe he's just got
a way cooler way to see it I just don't
see it so to me they're almost polar
opposites and experientially being
around them feels dramatically different
interesting dramatically awesome alright
well if you have any other thoughts on
that please drop them in the comments
would love to hear it one of the things
that Preston talks about is where he had
this phrase that I really liked and it
was developing a deep awareness to
experience joy and I wanted to get your
thoughts on that because you've made
some comments about joy to you that you
have to kind of think this is going back
to you or talking about how your
puzzle-solving in the moment and you
enjoy that but like finding joy in the
day-to-day and just really like opening
yourself up to experiencing that I think
is something that you have to cultivate
yeah there's no question like anything
you really have to cultivate and I think
people there's certain things that
people want to be effortless they want
joy to be effortless and I think that
it's not real if it's not effortless
they want love to be effortless and it's
not real if it's not effortless it's
just not the way the human mind works so
the human mind is a chemical processing
plant that's its job that's what it does
it both secretes and then reacts to the
chemicals that are flowing in in the
system and it is utterly fascinating and
this is something we're going to be
talking in the Health Show coming soon
and we've got some really cool people
that I think you're gonna be a part of
that but the the body does a super weird
thing this is how anxiety escalates into
a panic attack because you get this
feedback loop where it's like oh my
heart rate is elevated on my breathing
is shallow something must be wrong and
then it's if something's wrong like what
might it be and then your heart rate
speeds up and your breathing gets more
shallow and then like you check back
into my god my heart rate is escalating
them everything is eating more shallow
and so on like you get into a real
problem and that's how like one of the
first things watch an MMA fight watch
when they go into the corner the first
thing the corner guys are doing calm
down because you need to de-escalate
because you can't the body will just
keep going because it's in this feedback
loop of exertion stress and then which
creates more stress more exertion
breathing harder open mouth fatigue
right and so the people that end up
getting really good are the ones that
can stay super calm in the midst of all
that that they don't let the feedback
loop escalate them out of control and
you have to really take over your
conscious mind because if you put a
novice fighter in either another human
is attacking them a lion is attacking
them whatever they're gonna perform
piss-poor
because the way that the mechanisms are
created they tend to feed back into each
other and just continue to escalate
until they're no longer useful so you
really do have to learn to calm s up
down so it's really really interesting
to me as you're as you begin to
recognize that we are a chemical
processing plants as you begin to
recognize that there is this feedback
loop that you can insert yourself into
that and really take control of it and
what was the the beginning of the
question cuz I got back to that first
step but just about the deep awareness
yeah of joy so as you begin to realize
that you need to insert yourself that
this is a development that you need to
take control of those chemicals then you
really can optimize yourself for
experiencing joy you can talk yourself
into something being more joyful than it
actually was
and so this is something that I find
really fascinating so going back to this
feedback loop one of the reasons I don't
allow myself to get really pissed off
about something is your body is checking
to see like how you responded so if
somebody cuts in front of you in line
and you freak the [__] out your brain
goes whoa that really must have been
traumatic and because it's got to figure
out like why it just everything just
escalated so now the next time that you
go through that like you're already
ready like too freaked out because it's
like dude cutting in line it's like
that's a real thing right and so you're
ready to go versus if you're like that's
not a big deal then your body goes oh I
guess that's not that
no either one of those as a choice very
easy to go and I hide the direction for
instance if my wife isn't there I'm
super chill about stuff like that
especially if somebody's air-quote
wronging me like I just don't get wound
up about the [__] I way more interesting
things to think about but if my wife is
there I don't really bothers her and
it's so important to my code to like
stand up for my wife so now like
depending on whether she's there if
somebody cuts in line I'm either going
to like have to make an issue out of it
or I'm totally gonna let it go so it is
utterly fascinating for to see how your
brain like categorizes those situations
so to bring it back round to joy if you
focus on Fanning the flames focus on
like really being joyful about something
really like the origami right so we
could invite somebody to your house and
you and Nicole are like having the time
of your life doing origami and then
another person has a choice to make and
they can either buy into what you guys
are doing and be like whoa this actually
really is cool and these are the exact
words that they would need to say in
their head to really embrace that this
is really cool it's really important to
take the time to find something that's
new and novel and playful and find that
childlike joy right but that's the
actual narrative going on in their head
and as they do that what they're doing
is creating the framing device and in
creating the framing device for how to
look at this event of playing with
origami they begin to like actually feel
that like wow this actually really is
fun but if they come in and they're like
dude I should be like working on XYZ
like I can't believe is so [__] dumb
like we're sitting here playing with
paper like you can't even sell these
things like what are we doing this isn't
even a skill that's gonna help the exact
same thing you guys are having a ball
and they're being tortured right so
really really interesting nothing comes
for free at least not to the extremes
that it could there are things that are
innately painful innately pleasurable
but we either make them more so either
way depending on how we frame it and
think about it that's awesome
big announcement we have Preston smiles
in the feed our boy what does that put
where my voice is that right now I can't
do it but uh yeah it's super infectious
the way that he does he
yo much love guys thank you for all that
you do and be Tom nice man well thank
you to you dude you were so high energy
and so infectious and if you weren't
here at the beginning the feed where
Jared really put a finger on that
there's so much optimism that just
radiates off you from the moment you
walked in the house to the moment you
left just high energy positivity very
very cool very infectious yes all you
impacted this out there send your love
to Preston in the feed because it's an
awesome episode all right I want to talk
about the freedom mindset all right
so and this is about you know Preston's
idea that you can find freedom in your
life anywhere no matter your
circumstances and it really reminded me
too of gary vaynerchuk's episode because
he really emphasized having perspective
and having perspective is what helps you
realize like what's good in your life
and what you should be appreciative of
so I want to I want to get your thoughts
on where do you think a lot of that
comes from you know and and if it's his
perspective how do you go and seek that
perspective well I love the example that
he gives and his wife has a non-profit
which I'm forgetting the name of now but
they go to like Tanzania and they help
build clean water wells and when you
encounter people that have none of the
things you think you need to be free
money time resources and you see hmm
they're still alive and they're still
vibrant and he tells the story of the
girl who had a skin condition and so
literally her face is covered in
bandages she can only see out of one eye
the other ones closed and yet she would
sing right and bring this beauty into
the environment that she's in and
realizing that that that really is the
framing device that allows people to be
free of right free of what free of
seeing their situation as a problem or a
detriment or something that's holding
them back now did you ever read the book
the last lecture No so this lecture I
think he was a college professor
somebody can drop into the comments
because a lot of people know about this
guy and he was diagnosed with terminal
cancer and they gave him whatever
like six months to live or something and
so he buckles down immediately and
starts writing a book and doing a
lecture series about what it's like to
realize that you're you have a terminal
diagnosis but he felt fine
and so it was like look we've done all
the MRIs like I know this is terminal
but I'm in this awesome period where I
feel completely normal and so in that
period you realize that the battle is
100% mental because he could be
certainly entrapped by that or he could
allow it to allow himself to remain free
of that and so it was really really
fascinating read the book watch the
videos really interesting to watch
somebody who refused to let a death
sentence be a death sentence if you know
what I mean like he was gonna live the
time that he had left and so since none
of us have any amount of time that's
guaranteed right the example I was uses
I could literally have an aneurysm
before the end of this episode so since
it's not guaranteed for any of us anyway
like how do you stop yourself from being
trapped by your beliefs which comes back
to my whole thing about your cotton the
matrix and so freedom can be sort of on
a smaller level or can be on a massive
level and I think people trap themselves
in a thousand little ways whether it's
Preston's concept of landing and
thinking that you're gonna get something
and then like you've got it and not
recognizing the transience of any one
mental state or it's from the outside
looking at somebody that you know has
nothing in a very remote rural village
in Tanzania not realizing that those
people will either be free or be trapped
entirely by their mindsets so since
that's always going to be true no matter
how much you have right there's
billionaires they hate their [__]
life which is its that is the human
condition right read the poem Richard
Cory which I read that when I was like
eight dude and it changed me in real
time like I read it once when I was
eight I didn't look it up again until I
was like in my earth until the internet
was around till I was in probably my
early to mid 20s but it had stayed with
me it was about this guy everybody in
the town loves best looking guy he's
rich he's famous all the girls want to
be with him all the guys want to be like
him and he goes home and puts a bullet
in his brain and that's like the
punchline of the poem and you're like
what the hell and I remember thinking
wow every
buddy has a private struggle and that
struggle is with being free from all the
the perspectives and limitations that
make something bad and so once you
understand you control that frame of
reference and that in that frame of
reference you either remain trapped or
set yourself free and it has nothing to
do with your external circumstances then
your life will get very very interesting
that's awesome
jumping off at this point of kind of
being aware of what your circumstance is
and sort of accepting it is a lot of
what Preston talks about accepting your
circumstance but then he also talks
about how he is always in a work in
progress always evolving and always
pushing and those two things are kind of
somewhat at odds with one another so and
I know that you're very big on you know
holding to competing ideas in your head
at the same time so I wanted to get your
thoughts on that yeah that was how I
closed the episode right talking about
his friction between I all needs met
right now and I'm gonna make 1.7 million
dollars this year right I'm gonna strive
to make that a reality and it is the
friction between those two ideas that
makes him special and that's gonna make
him I think as successful as he decides
he wants to be and I encourage everybody
to find a way to exist in a very
comfortable way between those two
competing ideas you have to be able to
manage beauty and rage you have to be
able to figure out when to lean on one
when to lean on the other and that is
like admittedly that's advanced class
stuff right it is not easy to hold to
competing ideas in your head and to know
when to lean on one it's not always
clear so that's where you've got to get
good and that's where the you brought up
Gary's this making me think about him
you know that what does he say the the
the variable is in the quality of the
content or something like that it's like
at the end of the day your content
actually has to be good at the end of
the day your ability to think through
this stuff actually has to be effective
and so there is no escape to that like
you really have to do the work figure
this stuff out practice fail try again
so but if you can't get to the point
where you find that friction you're a
caricature
you're a caricature man and so many
people out there in the world of
inspirational talk and motivation
they're their caricatures and I get it
they don't mean to be man I don't think
there's any ill-will but it's like they
they just have not either figured out
how to actually do it in their lives or
they don't know how to articulate it but
nobody nobody is always in a beautiful
state nobody and Buddhist monks I'm
looking at you okay nobody is always in
a beautiful state and I think it's just
so much [__] not to be able to talk
about it or work through it and it is so
ironic to me that I'm becoming known for
like not trying to fake the funk right
so if I'm confused or lost on something
huh I'm confused I'm lost I'm trying to
like work my way through this just like
anybody else and and by the way that was
born of an earlier question that you
asked like self-awareness right and what
I found in really looking at I have the
sense of unease what is the sense of
unease I found that so much my anxiety
was born out of like I really wanted to
be cool I really wanted to be perceived
as effective powerful and then I was
drifting the anxiety started to rise
when I was drifting into an area where I
didn't know enough to really actually
come across well that I was putting
myself into a dangerous position and so
I learned to trust that and I can still
like when you hear me caveat things like
we've officially reached the edge of my
understanding that's me going I know
that sense of anxiety know exactly what
that is oh yeah I'm at the edge of my
understanding just say it so that
everybody sort of with you on the
journey so that they recognize I've
recognized when I hit the edge of my
limits but how did you figure out how to
go down that path which is to
acknowledge that you don't know what
you're doing at times versus saying okay
well I'm only going to put myself in
situations where I know what I'm doing
or I'm only going to prepare myself very
well for every situation so that I know
what I'm doing and I don't have to have
that feeling I love when you ask a
question and I really have a good answer
for you I have a good answer for this
one cuz it was a very acute moment so I
remember when I I was still a copywriter
and I had come on to the business that
guys end up being my partners in quest
they hire music
writer and they say don't think of
yourself as a copywriter you can have
any job that you want you can even earn
your way to being an equity partner in
this company but you have to crush it so
I had to get better right and I had come
on board because I wanted to get rich
there were two promises I made myself
when I was a kid one day I'll be rich
one day I'll have six-pack ABS I had no
idea I was gonna make either of them
true but that was my goal right so now
yeah take you know my obsession with
goals that in fact just in this episode
we said everything works backwards from
that so I already had that belief so I
want to get rich fantastic
these guys were smarter than me and I
was constantly in a position where my
ideas just weren't the right ideas and
they knew more and just forget that they
were ahead of me in their business curve
they could process data faster than me
so it was like always wrong always wrong
their idea was always the right idea and
as somebody who prided himself on being
right and being smart it felt [__]
terrible man and every time it happened
I was like this makes me feel so badly
about myself and and I didn't want to
feel badly about myself it sucks so much
when people feel badly about themselves
it sucks it will suck every day of your
life it will never stop sucking so the
question is what do you decide to feel
good about so I had a fixed mindset I
wanted to be right so they presented and
I'd actually I think it was first I
presented an idea they presented a
better one and I just couldn't take
another day of being wrong so I start
arguing it and arguing and arguing and
arguing it and finally I win the
argument and a voice in my head the
entire time I was arguing with screaming
you know you're wrong shut up
like you know you're wrong like what are
you doing and I didn't have the clarity
I didn't know why I just knew I need to
win this [__] argument and so I kept
going kept going kept going and either
they just relented or I actually
convinced them either way we were now
gonna move forward with my business idea
even though I knew it was worse and so I
said I have a goal to get rich I just
convinced them to do something that is
way less likely to make me rich so what
do I actually want because if I want to
just be right and feel good about myself
I'm in the wrong environment because
they're never gonna make me feel like
that they're too far ahead of me they're
too smart so I need to if that's really
what I want fair enough I'm not going to
judge me right
if that's really what you want that you
need to leave this environment because
it will be a torture chamber for you on
the other hand if it's not what you want
and you really do want to be rich then
you need to whatever idea is right
pursue it and that was the epiphany
moment and that's when I realized what I
build my self-esteem around matters
because I need to feel good about myself
I know that I won't enjoy feeling badly
about myself all the time
so can I switch what I take pride in can
I switch over to being the learner and
taking my sense of pride around being
able to admit that I'm wrong
fast like really fast and really priding
myself on the amount of time that from
the moment I realize that I'm wrong
which I won't pride myself on that I
want to do it quickly but like you're
gonna realize that when you realize it
but from the moment that I realize it
how fast can I go I was wrong and now
get on board with the right answer and
put all my energy behind it and when I
made that switch and the rethink in my
life changed that is like if there were
going to be an acute moment which sadly
there is not but if there was gonna be
an acute moment where I stopped being in
the matrix that was it and that's
certainly like if you ask me people ask
oh how did you become successful usually
I'll say I read the the the honest truth
is that realization realizing that I
needed to feel good about myself
that I could build my sense of pride
around something that was anti fragile
and that that thing was being a learner
always willing to admit when I was wrong
identifying the right answer and putting
energy behind it like and I I I am very
open to there being something else
because now that's part of my identity
but I really believe that is the single
most foundational part of the belief
system until you do that you'll be held
back it's it's great really powerful
someone dropped in the comments randy
pausch PA USC h is the name of the the
last lecture nice thank you I'm sure
thank you thank you thank you yeah that
was from Korean Davis Thanks ooh Corinne
she is an absolute rock star one of the
only two people to finish the 24 hour
live so that's right that was good yeah
cool well that is those are other
questions I have for today all right do
you have anything else you want to talk
about this episode no I mean are we
where we add on time here we're we got
about six more minutes till the time our
alright and we've got no questions
coming in from no unfortunately I think
it's because most people haven't seen
the episode right yeah yeah truth
hashtag truth yeah no I don't man that's
uh that is it if you guys haven't
already make sure you watch this episode
Preston is an absolute bundle of energy
enthusiasm optimism positivity very very
cool to be around and to enjoy it was a
lot of fun to have him in the house was
a lot of fun to research him and see
somebody be so consistently upbeat and
what made it important to me cuz not be
s is that he acknowledges it's a choice
it's a frame of reference it's something
he has decided to do and find in his
life and by deciding it and finding that
in his life his life radically changed
and took him from being the kid that was
getting in trouble and smoking weed at
like 12 years old or some crazy [__]
like that to really finding just
beautiful things in his life and being
able to create the life that he wants
for himself which I cannot stress that
enough it is for you to build and you
can have whatever life you desire you
have to make those choices at all times
based on your mentality all right now I
will come back to this camera and I will
say guys we are on a race to 100,000
subscribers technically to tell the
truth run race 115,000 but Jaret is
convinced that will be very confusing
and seem very odd to you guys so we keep
focusing everybody on a hundred thousand
but between you and me it's secretly a
hundred and fifteen thousand by the end
of September and our obsession with
numbers is two-pronged one it's what
helps us get guests on the show and
makes dr. finesses job a lot easier
brings amazing amazing people to you
guys because the first thing people even
press then smiles smiles Jesus even
presents smiles does is they look at our
YouTube count so getting our YouTube
numbers up is just immeasurably helpful
to getting you guys more and more guests
on the show so that would be incredible
if you would right now if you
on Facebook and you always listen on
Facebook and you never do YouTube one
thing that would be incredibly
meaningful to us right now this very
second open a new tab go to youtube.com
forward slash Tom bill you hit that
subscribe button that would mean the
world to all of you guys that are asking
how you can help and support this is it
this is your chance
right now yes and tell your friends
share this bad boy incredibly incredibly
meaningful and then the second reason
that numbers matter to us is it gives us
massive negotiating power as we build
out the studio the vision for the studio
is going to become more and more
tangible to you guys in the coming
months I think before we hit Christmas
time we're gonna have a lot of new shows
coming out we've got a partnership which
we can't really say yet but we've got a
partnership that we're very excited
about coming out that yeah it's gonna be
really really cool we're making moves
homies we are making moves so I can't
wait for you guys to see all of this
stuff coming to fruition and to really
understand why as a team we work around
the clock thank you guys so much for
joining us it is amazing this community
is the most beautiful thing in my life
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care and mad love to
press and smiles thanks for joining us
today in the feed my man much
appreciated
peace